As a kind of proof-of-concept of the style of blog I wish to write, I plan on documenting the process and progress of a small, relaxing project that can be worked on during the weekdays. I have not had the chance to really sit down with a gunpla (Gundam-plastic-model) kit in a long time, and hope that documenting the process of building one may make for an interesting read, while showcasing a multi-post long project.

To keep the scope narrow, this build will focus solely on assembling a gunpla kit in order to be as true a representation of that kit as it can be. I will not be painting, or making any large modifications to the kit, but instead will take my time preparing each piece before assembly. Ensuring each nub is removed, and the sprue gates are both as small and unassuming as possible. In a nother change from my usual gunpla assembly process, we will not be using any superglue. This is in order to avoid the white fog, or crystal that can be casued by superglue vapor, both of which would be extremely visible on this specific kit.

## So, which Gunpla kit am I going to build?

*Limited Edition XXXG-01S SHENLONG GUNDAM [CLEAR COLOR]!*

[Photo of Limited Edition XXXG-01S SHENLONG GUNDAM](image1)

This set was gifted to me by my sister as a birthday present and will be an exemplary showcase of the kind of build I have in mind. She got it while traveling to Japan, and it is a limited edition kit, meaning the robot's armor pieces are shot in clear plastic. I am very excited for this, both because I had always wanted a kit with clear plastic, but also because the clear plastic will make any nubs, or problematic gates more visible than normal. While this would usually be an attribute a model kit builder would want to avoid, in this case it actually represents an interesting opportunity, As my thinking is that with the right execution, and attention to detail during the preparation and assembly of its armor, the unique nature of a clear kit will be brought to the fore. Making the panels fade into the background, allowing the user to appreciate the engineering of the model, while simultaniously becoming a kind of “crystal” wrapping around the gunplas frame.

Another attribute making this kit a perfect candidate for this project is that its an HG kit. The HG series not being overly complex like the PG and MG kits will go a long way in making my goal of completing the build in 1 month more achievable. Plus, its from Gundam Wing, which is my favorite Gundam series!

So, with the introduction of the series out of the way, where am I going to start? As the major challenge with this kit is the assembly process, let us first take a look at the tools i have and use now.

[Photo of the gunpla tools i currently have](image2)

Over time, my Gunpla tools have degraded to an X-acto knife, some extra blades, a cutting mat, a nearly-empty bottle of Tamiya extra thin cement, and a cheap collection of sandpaper that is all too coarse. I took my nippers to work to use them to cut twist and zip ties. And even if the side-cutters in question were still here at home, they were never very impressive in any case. In other words, my current toolkit is not capable of the upcoming challenge. Now, I have known that my gunpla tools havee been in a sorry state for quite some time now. But for the past years as I first focused on my education, thean leave colledge behind and build a new home in a small apartment with my boyfriend, life has had a way of presenting more important things to spend money on. However, for the holidays a group of kind folks I work alongside got me a $100 gift card. I can think of no better way to spend it than revamp my toolset and use that money on a relaxing hobby. 

## So, can I afford to fix and complete a gunpla toolkit for $100 or less?

Yes! If only barely! Of the tools I currently have, the only ones that are in good shape are my cutting mat, and X-acto knife/ blades. Everything else needs to either be replaced, or purchased in the first place. So what tools will this gunpla build require? First and foremost is a high-quality set of nippers. I am going with a pair of: [Tamiya TAM74035 Sharp Pointed Side Cutter](https://www.tamiyausa.com/shop/tools/sharp-pointed-side-cutter/)’s. These nippers have great reviews, scoring well in both build quality, and the finish they leave behind.

After the piece has been cut off the runner, it may need to be cleaned up after the fact. To this end, I am getting a set of [Tamiya Sanding Sponge Sheet](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00MCM21P6/ref=ox_sc_act_title_2?smid=A1H3LAVJGR), and a set of [Sanding Sticks, and Glass Micro Files](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0D9VHRBDY/ref=ox_sc_act_title_1?smid=A1VCFC48AF) for polishing and blending a gate into its surroundings. Both of these tools are abrasive materials, and are naturally consumable. As such, do not spend overlmutch on either, jsut get whatever has the best reviews at the time. From my reaserch, name brand tools like the Gunpla Razor glass files are not worth the price premium. The only thing a model builder has to worry about with cheaper toolsets is that the ege of affordable glass fiels are very sharp, and can easily mar the surface of a part.

Finally, as noted above, I will not be using any glue for this build. This is mostly because I do not want to chance fogging any of the clear plastic up from superglue offgassing. But I may also want or need to partially disassemble the model in order to add all of the water slide decals I have planned. To this end, I want to use this model as a way to test an idea I had: To use [Wristwatch case pry tools](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0D5MBZ9YQ/ref=ox_sc_act_title_3?smid=AQIHDKAV77) in order to disassemble gunpla models! Thse toolsets are both very affordable, and are meant for metal cases, as such they should be more than durable enough. The only concern is that the metal tips may mar the surface of the models. So a nice set of plastic pry tools is also reccomended. I will be using the IFixit toolkit i alredy have to servce this purpose.

## Nice Addons:

I do not feel that the following tools are necessary for the detailed assembly of the gunpla we have planned, but rather will be useful for the next project I have for the same model. I have always wanted to try doing a really clean decal job on a 1/144 scale model in order to see if they really do blend away. As I have always been worried that stickers would add a visible bump to the surface of the model. To this end, I am getting a set of [Waterslide Deccals](https://www.usagundamstore.com/products/c75-hgac-shenlong-gundam-water-decal-sheet?variant=42282809131205&country=US&currency=USD&utm_medium=product_sync&utm_source=google&utm_content=sag_organic&utm_campaign=sag_organic&srsltid=AfmBOooU6-Pmy4mqNlWqWX5I-qwG1BGYu98jnl_obyxbTcSsZgW8VB-LL1I) for SHENLONG Gundam, alongside [MrМark Setter&Softer Bundle](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07RHBSWPT/ref=ox_sc_saved_title_6?smid=ADOTL9X). At the same time I will re-stock on my preferred model cement, and grab some [Runner stands](https://www.usagundamstore.com/products/gunprimer-rc-sk10-runner-clip-starter-set?variant=4) as well.

As we carry out, and document the assembly of this Gundam, I will be commenting on if the toolkit shown above is able to preform all of the things i need it to, and will be sure to note if there is any instance of lacking ability, or interesting discovereis unearthed with the availabilty of high-quaility tools, I really like the idea that one is able to get a really solid foundational toolkit for around 100 dollars, and this is my attempt at building such a "Midrange toolkit”.