## So, Who is the Blog For?

First and foremost, who is the target-audience for my blog? In truth, the primary audience is myself. One of the core goals i had when creating this bog would be the ability to write about the process i have been taking with any given endeavor. This blog is intended to act as a kind of self-dialogue as i talk though and large changes, important discoveries, or interesting occurrences i found while working on any given hobby or project. One of the aspects i have always struggled with when writing code, is documenting what the higher-level function is trying to do. There have been many times that i have gone back and said "What the hell is this function for? I can see what it does, and where it is used, but i cannot remember why i created it in the first place" This blog is intended to be a repository of higher-order documentation, not only showing the why of any given project, but also the challenges i faced and learned through.

The other audience is my immediate friends and family. Especially with the hobbies more closely related to fine art, there are many aspects that can be extremely difficult to communicate in a short conversation, while still being (in my opinion at least) both interesting, and intrinsic to the item in question. An example of this is the new gunpla kit my sister got for me. This kit is entirely made of transparent plastic, which creates several challenges when preparing each piece before assembly. I want to be able to document this process, both because it is interesting, but also, as my goal will be that the documentation can act as either a tutorial, or guide of what not to do for similar projects that may happen in the future.

## On the Styling

Finally, I wrote this blog as a peace of digital art. I always knew that I wanted a blog. I feel writing blog posts could be a great tool both for my own learning, and or self-expression. But when i started doing research on other popular blogs hosting utilities online, I got very annoyed with how they looked, and how constrained they were. Too often blogs were borderline monochromatic, with the only color on any given blog post coming from either photos, or *advertisements*. Too often, I saw white backgrounds, with black text, alongside badly handled mobile UI, and no dark theme toggle in sight. Making a visually interesting, and colorful blog were two of the core principles i used when designing this web-site. 

I also got very frustrated with the limitations and cost of the existing blog hosting pages available online. I was always interested in building a web-site from scratch, so when i saw the issues that existed with existing offerings, I decided to build this web-site from the ground up with vue.js, a reactive web-framework using Node.js modules. This was a large learning curve for me, but overall i am very happy with how it came out. In a very real sense, this web-site is my personal artistic interpretation of how a combination archive/ blog should look.

One large visual elemt of this blog is the use of a tiled background. In my opinion dynamic, and textural backgrounds are an often overlooked element of web-site design, and can be used to make a visually cohesive page, this idea led me to use very thick borders on almost every content container, which I feel worked great at making disparate elements of the blog clearly tied to all other aspects.

Every button, and icon was created by me, and are rendered as in-line SVG's, this gives them the rather unique ability to take on a dynamic coloration. The light/dark mode theme toggle if my blog is actually extremely simple, all it does is swap the colors of the Text, and the Background color with one another, and the SVG icons are able to react to this change. All of the colors on my blog are derived from the accent colors that adorn the categories, and the light/dark mode theme colors. These are then mixed together to give variety in tone while keeping the web-site as a whole very high contrast and visually appealing. This created an interesting challenge when i created the color pallet for this web-site, as the category colors needed to look good, and have a high contrast with both of the light, and dark theme colors, while also being complimentary to one another. I suppose you the reader will be the true judge on if i have succeeded in this.

## Blog Navigation

Each blog post is stored under a "Group" that gives broad categorization, I stylized these to look like filing cabinet folders, complete with labeled folder tabs. Each blog post showcases a photo if it has one uploaded, and a short excerpt from the content so the reader can get an idea on if they are interested in reading more. clicking into any given blog post, the web-site is much more simple, as the focus should be on the blogs content, the page is meant to be a non-intrusive, easily navigable page.

The buttons on the bottom of a blog posts banner have a navigation button forcing the page to scroll to the top, A theme toggle icon, and post-navigation buttons. Allowing for the reader to skip to the next blog post that is in the same post group as the post they are currently reading, or allowing the reader to take a step to the side, and read the next post in the posts parent category. This system was important for me, as a given project or hobby may encompass both solid work, and digital effort to bring to completion. Allowing a reader to follow the story of a project though the "Next in Group" function. 